---
title: "What is the best way to create a DOM element? Set innherHTML or use createElement?"
category: front_end
link: "http://www.thatjsdude.com/interview/dom.html"
---
Answer: When you set innerHTML property, browser removes all the current children of the elements. Parse the string and assign the parsed string to the element as children.

For example, if you want to add a list item to an unorderedList. You can get the element and set the innerHTML of the element like

{% highlight javascript %}
var ul = document.getElementById('myList');

el.innerHTML = '<li>Only one item</li>';              
{% endhighlight %}
      
Extra Credit: innerHTML could be slow while parsing a string. Browser has to deal with the string and if you have crappy html (invalid html).

appendChild

On the other hand, while using appendChild, you create a new Element. Since you are creating it, browser doesnt have to parse string and there is no invalid html. And you can pass the child to the parent and child will be appended to the parent.

{% highlight javascript %}
var li = document.createElement("li");
var text = document.createTextNode('Only one Item');

li.appendChild(text);
ul.appendChild(li);
{% endhighlight %}
      
Extra Credit: If you pass a reference to be appended as child other than creating a new element. The reference you are passing will be removed from the current parent and will be added to the new parent you are appending to.

Though you would be writing couple more lines of JavaScript, it makes browsers life easier and your page faster.


