---
title: "What is asynchronous programming, and why is it important in JavaScript?"
category: front_end
link: "https://medium.com/javascript-scene/10-interview-questions-every-javascript-developer-should-know-6fa6bdf5ad95#.hj5vgigx7"
---
Synchronous programming means that, barring conditionals and function calls, code is executed sequentially from top-to-bottom, blocking on long-running tasks such as network requests and disk I/O.

Asynchronous programming means that the engine runs in an event loop. When a blocking operation is needed, the request is started, and the code keeps running without blocking for the result. When the response is ready, an interrupt is fired, which causes an event handler to be run, where the control flow continues. In this way, a single program thread can handle many concurrent operations.

User interfaces are asynchronous by nature, and spend most of their time waiting for user input to interrupt the event loop and trigger event handlers.

Node is asynchronous by default, meaning that the server works in much the same way, waiting in a loop for a network request, and accepting more incoming requests while the first one is being handled.

Answer: you write css in high level with some special syntax (declaring variable, nested syntax, mathematical operations, etc.) and that is compiled to css. Preprocessor helps you to speed up develop, maintain, ensure best practices and also confirms concatenation, compression, etc.

This is important in JavaScript, because it is a very natural fit for user interface code, and very beneficial to performance on the server.

Good to hear:
-An understanding of what blocking means, and the performance implications.
-An understanding of event handling, and why its important for UI code.

Red flags:
-Unfamiliar with the terms asynchronous or synchronous.
-Unable to articulate performance implications or the relationship between asynchronous code and UI code.

Learn more:[event loop](https://youtu.be/8aGhZQkoFbQ)
